From Hanselman it's dot
com. It's Hansel minutes. Oh,
weekly discussion with web developer
and technologists. Scott Hanselman hosted
by Carl Franklin. This is Lawrence Ryan
announcing show number 56 recorded
Thursday, March 15th, 2007. So boyfriend Hanselman
it's is provided by Tellerik
already controls the most comprehensive
suite of components for windows
forms and asp.net web applications.
online@wwwdottelerik.com. Support is also provided
by slash N software red
carpet subscriptions. The most comprehensive
solution for adding connectivity to
your.net and asp.net web applications
with components for every major
internet protocol online@wwwdotnsoftwaredotcomandby.net developers journal
the world's leading.net developer magazine
online at www dot
dot com. In this episode,
Scott talks with windows rec
onto Raymond Chen. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman, and this is
another episode of Hansel minutes.
And I am sitting here
in the actual office of
the actual Raymond Chan, the author
of the old new thing.
He has just signed my
copy of the book and
I can die now, Raymond,
how are you, sir? I'm
I'm doing great. And I
hope that that copy fetches
a nice bounty on eBay.
You I've already put it
on eBay. Actually, I doubly
listed on Craigslist. I intend
to sell this for as
much money as possible. I
might get two, three bucks
over retail. I'm I'm impressed.
That's that's more than I
would've expected. I appreciate that.
So I'm a, I'm a
huge fan of your blog.
And I actually, I don't
know if you put two
and two together, but if
you open up your book
and you look on the
first page, Oh, heavens, I
should read that. That's that's
the praise for the old
new thing on the first
page, Raymond Chen is the original
wreck and tour of windows.
I went to the, the
Sharice at Merrill Merriam Webster,
find out what rec and
tournament and said, I thought
it was actually inappropriate, but
it actually did means exactly
what it is. So you
are the keeper of the
story storyteller. In fact, you
are, and I love the
book. And when they said,
Hey, put a quote in
the front. I said, I
gotta be a part of
that. I really appreciate you
taking the time to talk
to us here. I know
that you talked to Carl
and the guys over at,
at dotnet rocks for an
hour or so. And you
had Carl and stitches for
the better part of an
hour, but I want to
get down to, to brass
tacks here and find out
some of the kind of
fundamentals about what you work
on. You're doing, you're doing
winter to, to in the
shell, right? Yeah. So I've
been for, I don't even
remember when I came over
to the user interface group
and the shell team. So
this is, are the people
who do deal with Explorer
and, and common dialogues and
that sort of Thing. It's
kind of hard to describe
where the boundaries are to
non technical people, but you
have a technical audience. So
I, I do it with
technology. It's, it's, it's mostly
shell 32 and calm dialogue
and calm control and Ooh,
calm control things that hang
out in that world. I
remember the great 3d war
Of the late, mid to
late nineties when there was
15, 16 different versions of,
was it controlled?  32
And hadn't done subversions within
those. Why was that such
a problem? Cause if 3d
is good, more 3d muscles
Be better. Absolutely. I had
a lot of trouble with
that. That was DLL. Hell,
that was the beginning of
it. Wasn't it? I, I
don't know I was, I
was asleep for that part.
Is it really difficult to
do versioning like that? I
mean, you're just exporting a
function table. I mean, how
hard is it to keep
those functions to look in
the same? Why do we
get these big dragons that
we're gonna call GPS back
in the day they were
on handle application exceptions. Aue
eight UAE unrecoverable application error,
error. That's right. Wow. That,
that brings back horrible memories.
And you have to make
sure not to confuse it
with the United Arab Emirates. In fact,
yes. Did the people in
Dubai do not appreciate that
in any way? People don't
like UAE, for some reason,
it's like, we're just mining
our own beer. Why was
versioning so hard? Why were
there so many of her
copies of that DLL, there
were so many copies. Is
that DLL? I actually don't
know because I wasn't around
for that, but I assume
that the reason there are
so many copies of that
DLL is everybody thought it
was really awesome or everybody
wanted to have their own
version of it because, well,
you know, it's mine is
cooler than yours, but I
realized I wrote it. It
must necessarily be cooler than
yours. Yes. Invented here syndrome
specifically invented here. Now I
realized that I would definitely,
I'll probably ask you a
few questions where you weren't
here. And I know that
you're, you're known for volleying
back questions that are not,
I wasn't here. Sorry. I
was sick that day. I'm
very good at rejecting question.
And I appreciate that. So
most of this interview will
be rejected questions, but I'm
more interested in, you can
listen for them on the
deleted scenes. In fact, yes.
On the special features, I'm
interested in versioning cause you're
living in a non-managed world
and I haven't lived there
in a while. Right? I
think the last, last time
I thunked was, is at
least 10 years ago. And
I appreciate the occasional scars
are healed. In fact, I
appreciate the occasional, he referenced
pointer and that's, that's great
that you guys do that,
but is versioning really hard
and unmanaged world. I mean,
you've got methods inside of
shell 32 and the different
things that you maintain that
probably you wish you could
yank out, but you just
can't for compatibility. Oh, there's
stuff that we want to
yank out all the time.
But you know, we publish
the function, we document it.
Now we're stuck with it
Now from the, from the,
from a static dependency analysis
perspective, you can keep those
functions looking the same things
will line up. They take
the right parameters, but is
it really difficult to make
sure that the semantics of
those functions including bugs stays
the same? Yeah. Bug for
bug compatibility is, is one
of the, The things that
you sort of don't appreciate
until you have to do
it. In fact, you know,
looking at the changes between
windows XP in Vista, we
see people complaining about things
that saying that, Hey, if
I pass this invalid string
to half is, you know,
they're like path is network
path. It used to say
it was, and now it
says it isn't. And we
say that's right, because it
isn't. Well, I was sort
of hoping it would still
be one cause now it's
slowing down My program. I
remember when, when I remember
literally the day that I,
I double clicked on the
time date thing and saw
that the little time date
Apple, and I saw that
you had removed the time
zones because of that border
war or whatever with it
was at Peru or something,
there were, there were The
time zone. One was an
Ecuador Peru border war, as
I recall, And I was
sad and I said, a
feature has been removed and
I have seen it happen.
I noticed I'm sure a
lot of people didn't notice.
I know that you said
on Carl's talk that, that
they removed scraps and then
you remove scraps personally. I
noticed dammit and I, I,
I, I didn't really know.
Okay. I don't think anybody's
even noticed yet. I actually
notice when I make a
scrap, I go what's that,
That was that. And how
do I get rid of
this? My desktop I have
now I even opened one
up once. Look to the
M for the MC header
to see if it was
evil. Yeah. I, I suspect
that most people who created
scraps did it completely by
mistake and all of the
support calls or questions of
the form. How do I
get there? Fantastic. Is, is
that semantics? You said that
the semantics are very difficult
to maintain. I understand that
there's some kind of a,
and I may be misspeaking
here, but there's some kind
of a, A secret evil
Universe inside of a windows
box. That's like the application
compatibility here. We know everything
there is to know about
Arthur's teacher trouble. So we'll
patch up these six API
APIs. There's, there's a not
in substantial database of programs
and all the little things
that have to be done
to keep them happy. And,
and it, you know, it
doesn't even begin to cover
all of the applications out
there. The app compat team
have a rather large library,
but it's clearly not comprehensive.
How are they doing that?
I mean, you, they're literally
saying, you know, Arthur's teacher
trouble doesn't work anymore. And
it's because they're passing nonsense
to, I don't know, get
Pat Infowars. Those, those guys
are amazing. They have to
have a pretty good knowledge
of large chunks of the
system. When, when a program
stops working, they, they, they're
usually the ones who do
the initial debugging to figure
out what's going on. And
then once, once they narrow
it down, they can hand
it off to a particular
component team. If they determined
that there's a shell functionality
change, that's causing trouble, then
they can send it over
our way. But they have,
they have a pretty tough
job of having to figure
out even what, you know,
what area the problem even
lies in. So specific to
the shell when I go
properties compatibility, and I see
all that stuff, it seems
like I'm doing that a
lot now in Vista, I'm
saying no, no XP service
pack two. What exactly is
happening there? You're patching get
version. And when, when that
is when you pick like
one of those larger categories,
like if you run the
app, I've, I'm trying remember
what it's called application compatibility
toolkit. Now, where is that?
It's an app compat whiz.
It's, it's, it's essentially your
favorite search engine. And hopefully
it'll turn up the application.
Madly compatibility toolkit lets you
apply individual fixes and there
are hundreds upon hundreds of
them to specific applications. But
if you use the compatibility
page, then you're sort of
it's it's it's, it's sort
of like the, you know,
I got a combo meal
where we sort of have
the windows XP combo meal,
or if you pick this,
we'll apply these 25 fixes
that tend to cover most
of the problems applications that
had. And they can range
from just reporting that it's,
that it's windows XP, even
though it really is windows
Vista to, you know, checking
applications to see if they
try to access a file
by an old file name.
We turned it into the
new filing before sending it
through. So It's, it's, it's,
it's lying. It's various degrees
of slight of hand. So,
you know, back in the
day, back in the day,
back in the day, back
in the day, when, when
men were men and a
program manager, reign Supreme, even
on windows 95, you came
in and windows 95 kind
of universe, right? Just to
check, was it Chicago Or
was it, it was, it
was, it was called what
was it called? It was
called Cougar back then. Oh
my, yeah, it was a
that was actually a
precursor project to what eventually
became windows 95. And there
were, you know, the icons
were prettier. There were less
back in the day before
when it's XP before winter
2000, there were fewer device
contexts, your brushes, there was
a minimal amount of stuff
that you could paint. And
I remember it every once
in a while when my
computer got really stressed out,
icons would start turning black.
I asked the black icons,
why? Because you ran out
of GDI resource and somebody,
but you guys, you had
Black brush though. I mean,
someone was able to, why
not paint them white? Why,
why, why black? Well, but
the, the, the way icons
are drawn, you have your
mask. And then, then you
have there's. If you recall
a bit map or an
icon back in the day
consisted of two, bitmaps a
monochrome mass bitmap and a
color bitmap. And the algorithm
was to, and with the,
to end with a mask
and an XR with the
color bitmap. And so the
mass contained black pixels everywhere
you wanted color to show
through. So if you ran
into a problem with the
color part, all you got
was the mass part, which
all it did was set
pixels. The black, this is
the job of the mask
was to set pixels to
black. And the job of
the color part was to
start coloring them in again.
And so if you ran
out of resources and the
color in part, all you
got was stuff, getting set
to black. And now the
icons now through the magic
of Boolean algebra, that whole
and thing it's really easy
to make too. Let's get
that at community college. I'm
going to look into this
bullying, everyone marked book, Boolean,
algebra, let's all Google for
that. Find out what they
think. Even the new math
it's just called true false
algebra. Oh, Like an if
statement, we're all smiling. It's
too judgmental. We just like
to call it whenever. Whenever
Raymond has a standup career
on the side, in his
mind, I kill him Poughkeepsie.
Absolutely. And I was at
Carl said, try the veal,
tip your waitress. You know,
a lot of people would
pick on Explorer. They pick
on it a lot and
I'm sure you must, you
must get that. Yeah. I
pick on it a lot.
Well, Some people call it
the exploders sometimes it crashes.
One of the things I
get frustrated with is when
someone, I always like to
anthropomorphize Back in the old
days, we also called it
file damager Oh, That's brutal,
dude. We're at Mike we're
on Microsoft campus and we're
talking like this it's bad.
We actually, Oh, you know,
over lunch or over beer
or over beer at lunch.
Often as many people do
spend our time trying to
come up with derogatory terms
for our products around the
world. And it turns out
there are a lot of
Microsoft products that we're familiar
with. So we spend a
lot of time coming up
with derogatory names for them.
Part of it is just
to desensitize ourselves so that
when we hear it out
in the wild, we don't
feel so bad. Cool. So,
so tell me why Explorer
seems to lock up, particularly
when it's enumerating drives. I
open up the little plus
I, it goes off and
then suddenly up, sorry, your
CD is, I don't know,
what's wrong with a sheet
of your, your kid put
a sandwich in it and
I can't show the next
drive The sandwich and the
CD. You know, that was
me actually. I was, well,
I part, part of it
is, is that the, the
shell is heavily based on
comm and specifically apartment model
comm. And one of the
advantages of apartment model calm
is that everything happens on
a single thread in Commonweal.
We'll make sure that your
objects are in fact, you
have to observe the rule
that your objects are used
on the thread they were
created on, which makes it
very easy to implement your
objects. The downside of this
is that it's kind of
stuck to a threat and
we're kind of stuck with
this design because that's what
we've had since windows 95.
There are thousands upon thousands
of shell extensions out there
that are relying on department
threading and pull incredibly evil
tricks that breakdown if we
ever put them on some
other thread. So we're kind
of stuck with putting a
lot of things on the,
on the UI thread. We've
been working to move things
off, but, and I, and,
and in, in windows Vista,
in fact, in windows XP,
as I recall, at least
folder enumeration was done on
in the background. And I
believe tree expand. I can't
remember what the weather tree
expansion was in, in the
background or not. But I
definitely remember that back in
the old days when the
address bar was just a
DRS combo box, that when
you click that you, it,
it took time to spin
up all the drives to
get the icons and the
volume information, because that, that
is, that is clearly pending
upon a, an action. You
click the button, the dropdown
has to drop down and
if it drops down, it's
got to have stuff in
it. So you're, you're kind
of stuck on that one,
but yeah. Have to have
stuff in it. Can it
say I'm working on it?
For example, I know that
Mark Russinovich did a big
thing on his blog recently,
where, when he is a
user and he's not on
the domain, explore hangs for
11 seconds while someone tries
to figure out what his
real name is. So they
can go and say, see,
user's domain. You know, my
name Mark,  his name
slash my documents. And when
he's off the domain, he's
not connected. He's not, he
has no network connection. It
hangs realizes he's not in
the network. 11 seconds later,
it goes C users. Mark
are the actual folder name.
The part of the problem
with that is sort of
goes back to the behavior
changes and, and, and the,
the function function design upfront
is that somebody calls the,
give me the name for
this, for this thing. And
you have to give them
an answer you can't say,
or, you know, you, you
could, but as it was
originally, as the function was
originally designed, the guy asks
you, what's the name for
this folder? And you give
him an answer. And there
is, if you decide to
add a new answer called,
I don't know, it would
take too long or it
later, yeah. Try it. Or
are, you know, this, this
might take a while you
should do this on a
background thread. Then all the
people who don't know about
this behavior will just start
getting. So, so if the
assumption is that I've got
a limited number of milliseconds
before I have to get
this dropdown back to the
user. And if UI responsiveness
is the number one priority,
forgetting for a moment about
the inconvenience of just procedure
calls in general, in the
sense that they have to
have a well known return
type. If someone's, if someone
could Institute a, if you
can't get this back to
me in 300 milliseconds and
just stop bail, and I'll
never talk to you again,
and I'll make something up,
like the default answer, Separate
cars should be able to
predict the future, will this
call to get username take
more than 300 mils. So
this is the Heisenberg uncertainty
principle of dropdown lists. No,
it's, it's, it's more like
life would be a lot
easier if we had time
machines. It would. I mean,
there are plenty of things
I would change. Like what,
I don't know, because on
the other hand I might
accidentally destroy myself. It's, it's,
it's kind of a, It's
a, it's a it's it
would probably kill your own
grandfather. I N yeah. I
accidentally accidentally I would sneeze
and, and create this horrific
epidemic or something Going back.
So thanks. Thinking about time
machines for a second, everyone
thought, and by everyone, within
the context of this room,
that would be me thought
that all the icons in
Vista would be vectors. And
when, when, and I think
I thought that either someone
said it, or they said,
there'll be scalable. And I
had a flashback to prodigy,
and I said, Oh, awesome,
vectors. Those are great. I
hear those are doing good
things. So I just assumed
that there would be some
slider bar somewhere, and I
would just gleefully slide it
back and forth with my
giant icons going bigger and
smaller and bigger and smaller.
And in fact, in Vista,
there's an icon formats got
to be quite quite a
package. The icon format, this
has actually changed, not too
much. And that's, and I
think we may have, we
may have changed it too
much, even then the icon
format. It has been stable
since when, since the beginning
of windows. So I can
put 1,024 by thousand 24
icon in an icon format.
There's a format Up, up,
up until when is Vista,
when we added PNG icons
as the first incompatible change
of the icon format up
through windows XP, you could
take your, you could take
those icons and whack them
on a, on a windows
1.0 machine, and you'll, you'll
be able to come up
with icon. So the icon
format, it's a bag or
icons. You can have as
many icons as you want.
Yeah. Yeah. It's an icon
directory. And then there's a
header that describes how many
images there are and what
their sizes are and their
color depth. And all of
that has remained the same
up through windows XP and
windows, 2003 windows Vista. We
took a chance on adding
in a new icon format.
And in fact, our first
attempt was to fit it
in with the, to sort
of follow how the original
icon format sort of was
meant to be with, with
the appropriate, with, with a
header and then a pointer
to bits and have a
different, could you just put
different bits in there? Well,
we were actually going to
set them because they're in
the bit of info header,
there's a compression type field.
So we put ping in
the compression type field. And
it turns out that created
a lot of compatibility problems
Will be the third party
vendors, bitmap libraries, Some very
important, there is a very
popular icon editing tools that
when faced with icons that
had a compression type of
ping, just exploded. And it
turns out that that's not
something we sort of enjoy
it. So you just change
the format. So we had
to go back and, and
rejigger the format a little.
So that way the, the
file format was, I guess,
the problem was that the
way we originally put pings
port in, it looked too
much like an old fashioned
icon and that trick to
these programs and to thinking
that, Oh, I know what
this is. I know what
I'm doing. And so in
in fact, the solution to
compatibility was ironically to make
things slightly less compatible and,
and get these programs to
sort of panic and back
out before, before they got
into too much trouble it's
So you designed the format
such that We actually designed
the format. So it wouldn't,
so it didn't follow the
intended expansion design of the
icon format, But also in
such a way that, well,
but also in such a
clever though, in the sense
of what's like, it's like
the gift format. And I
don't say, I don't say
Jif. I don't, I don't
believe that that's, I don't
think many people even say
it as much anymore. Well,
I just said it. Okay.
And I'll say it again.
So the gift format, I
remember back in the day,
they, they added a notations
at the end, they like
GIF 89, eight stuck a
bunch of stuff. We can
put notes on the end
of your gift. And it
wasn't part of the original
format or something. So basically
they, they figured out that
if we put it here,
nobody will know here, here
they'll hit it. Let me
know exactly they'll hit the
no, and they'll go, Oh,
that's cool. I would think
it's so fun to make
those kinds of, you know,
we made this backwards compatible
in that no one blows
up when we read it,
Because we put it in,
in a place that most
people consider to be junk.
Anyway. Exactly. There's, there's a
lot of hunting for junk
that goes on when you
need to expand a file
format, or, I mean, especially
one of these older file
formats that everybody knows in
quotation marks where you would
think that, Oh, well, we
can just use this bit
over here. And that indicates
a new format over there.
But no, because everybody knows
this file format Hard to
make a binary, to expand
a binary format. It's kind
of like, I, you know,
you don't know about this,
but cause, cause you don't
know about anything, that's not
in the shell, right? You
refused to answer all questions.
I was gonna mention office
of the office format. They
took structured storage and they
basically used the office format.
If you make a doc
doc X file, you go
to word type, hello, world,
save as food dot docx.
Right? It's a zip file.
You can rename it, dot
zip, open it up. There's
a whole directory structure and
there's stuff in there. What
a clever way to make
an expandable. That's really smart.
It is. But there's all
the overhead of the zipping
and the zip headers and
all that kind of stuff
from the point of view
of something. And then you're
also stuck with, you know,
you can't add any new
compression formats at this point.
Exactly. So at some point
the binary bits have to
be here. You're stuck with
it. Yeah. You're not going
to go and make the,
the orange or the RAR
or the, the, or You
know, those other fantastic acronyms.
That mean nothing to me
really don't mean anything to
you. You want a Dodge
TSR guy. He didn't want
a desk view back in
the day doing before you
just like appeared in at
Microsoft in 1990. I mean,
I can tell a story
about desk view. Let's hear
it. Desk view is the
sister request sheet. That's Russo,
you know, you've had this
keyboard and there's a button
called sister request. What is
that for? That's for desk
view the purpose of CIS
requests as it was originally
designed, as I understand it
was to be sort of
a way to get the
attention of the controlling operating
system. So it was sort
of like the old fashioned
idea of what the, what
we now call the Shakira
attention sequence. The, the thing
that, you know, only, only
the operating system listens to
and control delete. Yeah. So,
and as I understand it,
desk view is the only
program that actually used SIS
requests to mean, okay, I
want to, you know, call
up the desk view menu
thing and nobody else paid
this request any attention at
all, but there it is
on your keyboard sitting around,
waiting for somebody to press
it. And then of course
you press it. And nothing
happens because no program cares
about either. Can you, Can
you do something with it?
I mean, I've never seen
a high draw, a smiley
face on it. I've never
seen a hockey program say
that'd be great. They overload
the hell out of the
windows key, but I've got
a, I've got a brand
spanking new Lenovo laptop here
with a little blue function
key and just request it's
just there waiting for me.
I thought it was like
a well there's print screen
at all print screen. I
thought it had something to
do with that. No, no
print print screen used to
be on the asterisk key.
It was back in the
old back in the ancient
ancient days. This was, this
is why you always had
to have a printer hooked
up to your computer and
ready because I, if you
can go, you can go
search on the internet, find
pictures of those really, really
old keyboards and the right
hand shift key was not
a huge key. Like it
is today. It was the
size of a normal key.
And next to it to
the right was a key
that had an asterisk when
unshifted and was print screen
when shifted. So if you
are a sloppy typist, your
right pinky would reach with
the shift key. It would
slip too far and it
would hit the shift key
and the asterisk, which meant
print screen. That's good design.
Yeah. So you'd be sitting
there minding your own business,
typing away, and then your
machine would lock up because
it's waiting for your printer
and no, it didn't make
any noise. It just sat
there sound okay. Under the
old dot matrix printers and
they go ne Oh, that
all of the dots. I
just remember they, they eat,
eat. I don't, I don't
remember all the, the head
moving around, not doing anything.
That was That's good design.
If you read what's up,
did you read the design
of everyday things? I'm sure
you probably have that around
here somewhere. Yeah. The teapot
book, the TES it's it's,
it's a fantastic book That
kind of D I love
that kind of stuff. There's
this there's such legendary designed
applications that just really pushed
the limit like Microsoft bot.
Oh, Bob. Yeah. Bob, Bob
was, Bob was a product
ahead of its time. It
was clearly, it was, it
was, it was sort of
too revolutionary for its own
good  was, was under
appreciated and, and has now
been supplanted by YouTube now,
but believe it or not,
Bob is not dead. Everybody.
If you have your windows
XP CD, there is a
copy of Bob on that
CD. What does a copy
of Bob doing on my
Microsoft windows? SPCD so after
consulting with all the translators
and you know, all the
other people who would need,
who would need to have
space on the CD, we
noticed that while there was
some empty space on the
CD. So look, we paid
for the CD. We may
as well put stuff on
it. And as a, as
a, as sort of one
of the sort of lame
attempts at slowing down, people
who like to, you know,
make it illegal copies, we
were going to, we, we
put some, you know, dummy
files or dummy data on
the CD and set up
with check that the dummy
data was still there to
make it. So that way,
if you were to make
a copy of the CD,
you still had to make
a copy, including all the
dummy data. And you know,
when people are transferring files
over 56 K modems, an
extra 30 Meg of dummy
data sort of slows you
down. Not that that slows
people down much anymore. And
the dummy data is Microsoft.
Bob, the person who had
to come up with a
dummy data was looking around
for about, you know, he's
like, I, I need, I
don't remember if it was
30 mag or something. It
was, but he said, I
need a Corpus of dummy
data. Where am I going
to find some dummy data?
And he could have called
Crip, gen random and generated
10 Meg of Crip, gen
random data. But there's no
fun in that. So instead
he went to the internal
release servers, went through the
archives and found a copy
of Microsoft Bob and took
all of the Microsoft Bob
floppies, which comes out to,
I don't know, whatever, whatever
size he needed, but of
course, Microsoft, Bob floppies, aren't
very random. So he encrypted
them using key by typing,
smashing his hand on the
keyboard and generating keys that
he will never be able
to reproduce again and out
came a, an encrypted copy
of Microsoft, Bob, which has
the nice property that the
contents are kind of are
closer to random. It's still
not cryptographically random, but it
was messed up enough. And
that's what went into the
unused spaces on the CD
as ballast data. So if
you go and find your
copy of windows XP that
you bought in the store
and you know where to
look and I myself don't
know where, cause I just
heard this story. And if
you can somehow mash your
hand on the keyboard and
exactly the right way out
will come a copy of
Microsoft, Bob. That's fantastic. So
Microsoft, Bob one might say
that windows XP has been
the most effective Microsoft Bob
delivery system. Bob has everywhere.
Bob is everywhere. It's stories,
it's stories like that, that
make the book so great.
You know, I've got the,
you know, your, your book,
the old new thing that
some people are calling the
new old thing, You know,
I'm, I I'm, I'm sort
of learning to get used
to it. I've I've I
haven't why is it called
the old new thing it's
called the, the title of
the blog was in fact
determined in about 35 seconds.
Brad Abrams said, Raymond, you
should start doing this blog
thing. And I said, Whoa,
you really think so. I'm
not sure he said, yeah,
just do it. And so
I started filling out the
paperwork to, to set up
the blog. And one of
the questions is so what's
its title. I said, I
didn't realize it needed a
title. And I just made
up the phrase, the old
new thing on the principle
that I was going to
be writing about old stuff,
but stuff that at one
time was new. And so
the old new thing is
talking about things that back
in the day were the
new thing. So that's, that's
sort of where the name
comes from. Well, it's, it's
huge. I know I was
just sitting here and we
were looking at your stats
and you're becoming more and
more popular. People enjoy reading
it. The book has new
content and you revise some
of the stories. It's very
well organized, I guess, Joel,
even Joel, Spolsky Joel on
software, you know, these, the
pundits are noticing you you're
becoming a power broker in
the blogosphere. Yeah. I can
always tell whenever Joel makes
a reference to one of
my stories because all of
a sudden they start showing
up in, you know, all
these other data mining stuff.
And like recently he, he
retold the story of that,
that I, that I shared.
And it's, it's in the
book it's on the blog
about blowing the dust out
of the connector is a
way to get people to
double check things as sort
of the, the, the catchall
description for getting people to
check things that they would
normally resist checking on the
assumption that it would make
them look stupid. No, you
would say, is it plugged
in? And of course, they're
gonna say, well, of course
it's plugged in. I'm not
that stupid and they're not
going to check. And if
you're, you know, you have
a pretty good feeling that
it's not plugged in. So
you, you tell them, well,
you know, sometimes the connector
gets kind of dusty. Could
you get down there, unplug
it, blow into the connector
to get the dust out
and then, and then plug
it back in and maybe
that'll clear it up and
they'll go down there. They'll
notice that it's not plugged
in or Vale. Or if
it was plugged into the
wrong port, they'll unplug it.
They blow it to the
connector. Then they plug it
back in. Now they're paying
attention. Now they're going to
plug it into the correct
part. They come back and
all works and they think
you're great and everybody's happy.
And nobody loses face. There
was. I remember there was
another story about a different
type of support calls somebody
had called in to the,
to report a geopolitical error
in the maps used in
flight simulator. And if you've
been following what I've been
writing, you know, the maps
and we hit upon it
earlier, maps are extremely sensitive
data. And in general, if
you can get away without
using a map, that would,
that, that that's often the
safest bet. But if you're
a flight simulator and the
object of the game is
to fly around the world,
you kind of have to
have maps. And somebody had
called in to report that
there was some sort of
border problem on, on, on
the map. And they got
the, you know, the, the
report came in, it went
through the normal bug report
analysis thing and the response
and the person got the
response saying that, you know,
thank you for, thank you
for reporting the problem. We've
taken a look at it.
And we believe that there
is that everything is just
fine, that the map is
correct. This person was sort
of unsatisfied with this answer.
And instead of going through
the normal escalation procedures sent
mail to bill Gates, bill
reads his email, or at
least enough of it gets
to him that when this
issue came up to bill
Gates, he went back to
the flight SIM team and
said, I want to know
what's going on here. And
the flight SIM team are
like, okay, we thought we
had taken care of this,
but apparently this person decided
to sort of, you know,
just take their case straight
to the Supreme court. And
they went back and looked
at it again and called
the guy back and tried
to get more information about
why he thinks the map
is wrong. You know, which
map there we do. Cause
we're using this map and
you know, where do you
think the border should be?
And at the end of
the day, it turned out
that this person was basing
his map information upon a
map of the world shower
curtain that he had in
his bathroom said shower curtain
was a couple of years
old and hadn't been kept
up to date with the
latest changes in borders in
Eastern Europe. So that's yeah.
So, you know, and bill
was involved and, and this
would normally not have been
a problem except you, you
bring in bill and everybody
goes on high alert and
you know, he's still doesn't
answer my emails. Yeah. Well
you need to stop opening
them with like, Hey loser.
Oh, that's my problem. Yeah.
Well, listen, Raymond, I really
appreciate you taking the time
out of your day. I
know that you're busy, busy,
you've got all sorts of
stack dumps and stuff up
on your screen here. Yes.
I put it in lab
dumps up just to look
into it Does look impressive.
Yeah. There's highlights and stuff
with like, Oh yeah. That's
the offset into whatever. Yeah.
Yeah. I mentioned I can
read assembler with just with
my eyes closed, but listen,
the book is fantastic. And
I don't just say that
because the author sitting right
here, I really enjoyed it.
And it's, it's honestly, I
probably shouldn't say this, but
it's, it's a great bathroom
book because it's got little
short stories that was actually
kind of the goal. It
was, It was not meant
to be a book. You
sit down and plow through
all at one go. It's
meant to be a book
that you sort of read
as time permits. And that's
exactly what it's allowing me
to do. And I really
enjoy the stories. I think
it's great. And I really
appreciate your time. Thanks a
lot. Thank you.